README.md, before:

# HPC application best practices on AWS
This repository contains HPC application best practices, specifically designed for, and optimized to run, on AWS.<br>
In particular, these best practices take into account the peculiarity of AWS HPC-specific services and EC2 instances, in order to get the best out of them.<br>
This repo is maintained by AWS HPC Solution Architects, who will take care of updating and improving these best practices as AWS services evolve or new settings/tunings are discovered. This is **not intended** to be an AWS supported product or service, though.<br>

## Get Started 

### On existing Clusters

If you already have a cluster up&running and you want to try these best practices, then you can `git clone` this repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications.git
```
Then, (if needed) customize the example launch script for the application you want to try and run it. 

### Build a new HPC Cluster (1-Click deployment)

In case you don't have a cluster ready, you can use one of the CloudFormation templates we have prpared for you.<br> 
Find below a few Tempaltes to create a new HPC cluster with just 1-Click.<br>
Select your preferred AWS Region among the supported ones. You will be asked a few questions about Networking and Storage; <br>
If you have no idea how to answer or what these services are, just leave the detault values: `AUTO`. <br>
The 1-Click deployment procedure will take care of creating everything needed for your HPC Cluster to run.<br>
<br>

| Region       | Type | Launch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 
|--------------| --- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| US  | --- | --- |
| N. Virginia (us-east-1) | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/us-east-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| Ohio (us-east-2) | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/us-east-2.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| EU  | --- | --- |
| Stockholm (eu-north-1)    | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-north-1.svg)](https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https%3A%2F%2Fhpc-applications-best-practice.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com%2Feu-north-1.x86.yaml&stackName=test2&param_PublicSubnetAId=AUTO&param_FSx=AUTO&param_PrivateSubnetAId=AUTO) |
| Stockholm (eu-north-1)    | GPU | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-north-1.svg)](https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https%3A%2F%2Fhpc-applications-best-practice.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com%2Feu-north-1.GPU.yaml&stackName=test2&param_PublicSubnetAId=AUTO&param_FSx=AUTO&param_PrivateSubnetAId=AUTO) |
| Ireland (eu-west-1)       | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-west-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| Ireland (eu-west-1)       | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-west-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| APJ | --- | --- |
| Tokyo (ap-northeast-1) | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/ap-northeast-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |


## HPC application Benchmarks
In addition to application best practices, this repo will include some HPC application benchmarks. For all the included applications, we've run some benchmarks using public datasets. We'll publish our data and some charts to show the performance and scalability you should be aiming to achieve.

## AWS HPC products and services being used
 * [AWS ParallelCluster](https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/parallelcluster/) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/what-is-aws-parallelcluster.html)
 * [Elastic Fabric Adapter](https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/efa/) (EFA) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/efa.html)
 * [Amazon FSx for Lustre](https://aws.amazon.com/fsx/lustre/) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/fsx/latest/LustreGuide/what-is.html)
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc7a](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc7a/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc6a](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc6a/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc6id](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc6i/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc7g](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc7g/) Instances

## HPC application best practices included:
1. [Fluent](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Fluent)
2. [Abaqus](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Abaqus)
3. [LS-Dyna](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/LS-Dyna)
4. [Optistruct](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Optistruct)
5. [STAR-CCM+](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/StarCCM)

## Request a HPC application best practice

We're starting with the most common HPC applications, specifically in the CAE market.  <br>
We're also updating the list of included HPC application best practice regularly, based on your feedback.<br>
So, feel free to request a new HPC application best practice from the [ISSUES](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/issues) .<br>
We will do our best to satisfy your requests.<br>

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. [See the LICENSE file](LICENSE).

Commit message:

CloudFormation Output image, and a few typos

README.md, after:

# HPC application best practices on AWS
This repository contains HPC application best practices, specifically designed for, and optimized to run, on AWS.<br>
In particular, these best practices take into account the peculiarity of AWS HPC-specific services and EC2 instances, in order to get the best out of them.<br>
This repo is maintained by AWS HPC Solution Architects, who will take care of updating and improving these best practices as AWS services evolve or new settings/tunings are discovered. This is **not intended** to be an AWS supported product or service, though.<br>

## Get Started 

### On existing Clusters

If you already have a cluster up&running and you want to try these best practices, you can `git clone` this repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications.git
```
Then, (if needed) customize the example launch script for the application you want to try and run it. 

### Build a new HPC Cluster (1-Click deployment)

In case you don't have a cluster ready, you can use one of the CloudFormation templates we prepared for you.<br> 
Find below a few Templates to create a new HPC cluster with just 1-Click.<br>
Select your preferred AWS Region among the supported ones. You will be asked a few questions about Networking and Storage; <br>
If you have no idea how to answer or what these services are, just leave the detault values: `AUTO`. <br>
The 1-Click deployment procedure will take care of creating everything needed for your HPC Cluster to run.<br>
<br>

| Region       | Type | Launch                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 
|--------------| --- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| US  | --- | --- |
| N. Virginia (us-east-1) | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/us-east-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| Ohio (us-east-2) | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/us-east-2.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| EU  | --- | --- |
| Stockholm (eu-north-1)    | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-north-1.svg)](https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https%3A%2F%2Fhpc-applications-best-practice.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com%2Feu-north-1.x86.yaml&stackName=test2&param_PublicSubnetAId=AUTO&param_FSx=AUTO&param_PrivateSubnetAId=AUTO) |
| Stockholm (eu-north-1)    | GPU | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-north-1.svg)](https://eu-north-1.console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/home?region=eu-north-1#/stacks/quickcreate?templateURL=https%3A%2F%2Fhpc-applications-best-practice.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com%2Feu-north-1.GPU.yaml&stackName=test2&param_PublicSubnetAId=AUTO&param_FSx=AUTO&param_PrivateSubnetAId=AUTO) |
| Ireland (eu-west-1)       | x86 | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-west-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| Ireland (eu-west-1)       | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/eu-west-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |
| APJ | --- | --- |
| Tokyo (ap-northeast-1) | Arm | [![Launch](https://samdengler.github.io/cloudformation-launch-stack-button-svg/images/ap-northeast-1.svg)](https://console.aws.amazon.com/) |

After the CloudFormation stack is completed you can go to the `Output` tab and click on the `SystemManagerUrl` link. <br>
This link will let you access the HeadNode via SystemManager without using any password or certificate. <br>
(see the image below)

![CloudFormation Output Tab](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/blob/main/Doc/CloudFormationOutput.png?raw=true)


## HPC application Benchmarks
In addition to application best practices, this repo will include some HPC application benchmarks. For all the included applications, we've run some benchmarks using public datasets. We'll publish our data and some charts to show the performance and scalability you should be aiming to achieve.

## AWS HPC products and services being used
 * [AWS ParallelCluster](https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/parallelcluster/) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/parallelcluster/latest/ug/what-is-aws-parallelcluster.html)
 * [Elastic Fabric Adapter](https://aws.amazon.com/hpc/efa/) (EFA) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/efa.html)
 * [Amazon FSx for Lustre](https://aws.amazon.com/fsx/lustre/) and its [Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/fsx/latest/LustreGuide/what-is.html)
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc7a](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc7a/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc6a](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc6a/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc6id](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc6i/) Instances
 * AWS EC2 [Hpc7g](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/hpc7g/) Instances

## HPC application best practices included:
1. [Fluent](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Fluent)
2. [Abaqus](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Abaqus)
3. [LS-Dyna](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/LS-Dyna)
4. [Optistruct](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/Optistruct)
5. [STAR-CCM+](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/tree/main/apps/StarCCM)

## Request a HPC application best practice

We're starting with the most common HPC applications, specifically in the CAE market.  <br>
We're also updating the list of included HPC application best practice regularly, based on your feedback.<br>
So, feel free to request a new HPC application best practice from the [ISSUES](https://github.com/aws-samples/hpc-applications/issues) .<br>
We will do our best to satisfy your requests.<br>

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. [See the LICENSE file](LICENSE).
